# philosophy
- ssa intro

# methods
We make admixture analysis with O.orientalis_1/2 and SSA populations with sNMF [@frichotFastEfficientEstimation2014]. We investigated Introgression using a combination of D and fdm statistics. We calculated D statistics (pattersonAncientAdmixtureHuman2012a) with a four taxon model (((P1,P2),P3),P4) with Dsuite v0.5r50 (malinskyDsuiteFastStatistics2021a) command Dtrios. We used Menz sheep as the reference population (P1), individual of SSA breeds as the target population (P2), O.orientalis_1 or O.orientalis_2 as the donor (P3) and O.canadensis as outgroup (P4). Pvalue < 0.05 from a standard block-jackknife procedure was considered a proof of gene flow between P3 and P2.
We calculated fdm with Dsuite v0.5r50 (malinskyDsuiteFastStatistics2021a) command Dinvestigate. For every region we investigate, the D > 0 and fdm in the top 95% was considered a introgressed region. The overlaped four introgression region was considered the common introgressed region associated with the hot, wet and parasitic environment of southeast asia (Indonesia and Bangladesh). The PBS value was calculated with PBScan v2020.03.16 [@hamalaGenomicPatternsLocal2019] with the arguments (-win 50 -step 25 -mc 2000). The regions with top 1% PBS value was considered local adaptation regions. We overlaped the local adaptation regions with the common introgressed region, and these regions were considered as adaptive introgressed region from O.orientalis_2 into Indonesia and Bangladesh sheep (BGE/GAR/GUR/SUM).

We download the sheep QTL bed file version OAR_rambo1 from sheepQTLdb [@huBringingAnimalQTLdb2022], and overlaped the QTL with AI region with bedtools v2.30.0 [@quinlanBEDToolsFlexibleSuite2010].

# results
We used the ABBA model (((P1,P2),P3),P4) to test introgression between P3 and P2, Menz sheep(MEN) from africa as the P1, which was confirmed with no introgression between O.orientalis after domestication [@caoHistoricalIntrogressionWild2021, @lvWholeGenomeResequencingWorldwide2022b], and O.canadensis as the outgroup P4, which was living at america that can't have any natural introgression with south and south east asian(SSA) sheep breeds, the two iranian mouflon populations O.orientalis_1 or O.orientalis_2 as P3, the 18 SSA breeds as the P2 to test for introgression. All the 36 trios Patterson's D-statistic and f4-ratio were calculated, and the criterion for introgression is: D > 0 and P-value < 0.05 and f4-ratio > 0, only four trios meet the criterion (fig.3A; supplementary table S4), so we considered that the Garut, Garole, Bangladeshi and Sumatra sheep breeds maybe under introgression with *O.orientalis*_2. As the four breeds all living near the india sea, we named the four breeds as SSA sea breeds. We calculated the fdm with a 50 snp window and 25 snp step across the sheep genome with the four SSA sea trios which were considered under introgression. The top 5% fdm with D > 0 snp region from the four SSA sea trios was considered as introgression region. We overlaped the four introgression region detected by top 5% fdm, and get 6,384,279 bp common introgression region (fig.3B, supplementary table S5, supplementary table S6). We calculated the PBS value of the four SSA sea breeds with mens sheep and *O.orientalis*_2 to detect positive selected region. The top 1% PBS regions were considered under positive selection (fig.3C, supplementary table S7). We overlaped the PBS positive selected region with the common introgression region and named these 21,033 bp region as AI(adaptive introgression) region (supplementary table S8), which maybe introgressed from *O.orientalis*_2 and undergone the same selection direction to promote the local adaptation to the hot, humidity and parasite environment of india sea nearby. We overlaped the AI region with sheep QTL (supplementary table S9) and find that these region overlaped with Body_weight, Carcass_fat and fat_weight, which traits are associated with the dwarf phenotype of Garole sheep [@sahanaGaroleProlificSheep2001, @banerjeeProductivityGeneticPotential2010] and small body size of Bangladeshi sheep [@banerjeeProductivityGeneticPotential2010], the QTL Nematodirus_FEC is associated with the Sumatra sheep infection of nematode parasite phenotype [@febretrisianaSheepGastrointestinalHelminth2021] (fig.3C). The QTL overlaped AI region we found are associated with the phenotypes of these four SSA sea breeds, Which showing that our results are in high reliability.

## ref_base
Garut sheep(GUR) are raised at West java and individuals often lack external ears [http://www.sheep101.info/breedsO-P.html#Priangan]. Garole sheep(GAR) are distributed in the Sundarban region of West Bengal in India. It is a small-sized breed known for its prolificacy and adaptation to the saline marshy land of the Sundarban region. The breeding tract of Garole sheep falls under the Coastal Saline Zone of West Bengal and the climate of this region is hot and humid [@sahanaGaroleProlificSheep2001], and is famouse for a dwarf prolific meat type sheep of Bengal where males were horned and females were polled [@banerjeeProductivityGeneticPotential2010]. Bangladeshi sheep(BGE) being raised are of indigenous type with a small body size and are raised primarily for meat production. They produce small amount of hairy fleece [@devendraSheepProductionAsia, @pervagePhenotypicCharacteristicsIndigenous2012]. Sumatra sheep was raised in Sumatra. Infection of nematode parasite is commonly found in the digestive tracts of sheep [@febretrisianaSheepGastrointestinalHelminth2021]. The QTL overlaped AI region we found are associated with the phenotypes of these four southeast asia breeds, Which showing that our results are in high reliability.

# kk
